# oosh

Oosh is a performance-oriented, hackable music-making platform built on [Node](https://nodejs.org/), [Sails](http://sailsjs.org/), [Mongo](https://www.mongodb.com/),
SocketIO, WebAudio and WebMIDI. It's not Ableton. It's not trying to be. Don't expect it to be.

* _performance-oriented_: set it up to be easy to play within a live performance setting. Do it your way.
* _hackable_: all configuration and data is in JSON. Create widgets to more easily view and modify configuration and performance data or drill down into it and hack it directly using the built-in JSON editor.



## Concepts

A project is a set of screens, i.e. devices running oosh in a web browser.

Each screen can have any number of event emitters attached to it, e.g. computer keyboards, pointing devices, MIDI instruments, audio input devices, touch screens, accelerometers, etc. Screens connected to the project can send and receive messages to and from all other screens in the project.

Each screen can be configured with any number of widgets. A widget can handle events broadcast to the project,
generate its own events, or both. Widgets can handle messages any number of ways, e.g. play musical notes or
audio samples, generate visualizations, ...

For example, a project might consist of a laptop computer and a mobile smartphone. The phone's accelerometer
broadcasts movement events to the project. The laptop computer can set up a widget to interpret those movement
events and map them to MIDI notes that will be transmitted to an attached MIDI-enabled workstation. At the
same time, another widget on the laptop can map the movement event data to audio samples on the keyboard...

## Getting Started

1. Create a project (and connect a screen)
  * _Project -> New Project_, then fill in the info
2. Add areas to the screen
  * _Screen -> New Screen_
3. Add a widget to each area
  * _Screen -> Add Widget_, then drag the widget name onto an area
  * Start by adding the _EventSpy_ widget to see events generated by connected devices 
  * Try out the _Learner/Looper_ widget to record and play back events
4. Use _Project Source Editor_ to hack widget configurations
  * _Project -> Source Editor_, or click the pencil on a widget's title bar
  * variables in the JSON code are prefixed with colons (:). In the case of objects, attributes are also referenced using colons (e.g., :event:detail:properties). 
